Welcome, in this video, we're going to continue with our newly created repository
by cloning to our local system. I'm currently on the "my-website" repository on GitHub,
which we just created. Now, I want to get a copy of this repository on my local system
so I'm going to go through a process known as cloning.
Scroll down, and in the lower right hand side of the page,
there are options for cloning this repository.
It's currently set to HTTPs, which is perfectly fine,
but now that we've set up SSH let's switch over to SSH authentication.
Great, this has switched over to the SSH URL.
Now, click on the copy to clipboard button, and that will copy this URL to your clipboard.
Great, now let's return to our terminal. I'm currently in my users' home directory.
I've been putting all my projects and repositories underneath a folder named "projects";
this is where we want to use the "git clone" command
in order to bring down the repository from GitHub.
Type "git clone", space, and then paste in the URL we just copied into our clipboard.
Double check that, and then press enter.
If things went well, you should have a screen that looks similar to this.
Now, let's do an "ls -l". In addition to the "demo" repository we've been working with,
we now have a new folder named "my-website".
One thing you'll notice is that, by default, the "git clone" command
will clone the repository into a project folder named after the repository name;
in our case, "my-website". Go into the "my-website" folder,
and when we do an "ls", specifically an "ls -al",
we have our ".gitignore" file, "LICENSE" file, the "README.md" file,
which are the three initial files we started out with,
and the ".git" folder, which represents the Git repository.
Also, when we do a "clone" command, by default Git sets up origin
to be the name of our remote reference. When we issue the "git remote -v" command,
listing out all the remotes that are available, we see that we have origin pointing back to GitHub.
Let's return to our projects folder. Do an "ls -l" to remind ourselves of our folders,
and let's say, for this example, that I don't want to use "my-website" as my folder name.
No problem, let's go ahead and remove it: "rm -rf", space,
and then the folder you want to remove.
Be extremely careful with this command, because effectively,
we are recursively and by force removing anything we specify;
you could do great harm to your system if you're not careful.
So, double check this line, and then press enter.
Now, when I do an "ls -l", we are left with only the "demo" repository.
Let's do our "git clone" command one more time,
except now we're going to specify the name of the folder we wish to use.
Type "git clone", space, and then paste in the URL that should still be on our clipboard,
space, and then the name of the folder you wish to create
on the local side for this repository: I'm just going to simply name it "website".
Once you've done that, press enter. Git will say that we're "Cloning into website".
So, instead of using the default behavior,
which is to create a folder named after the repository,
it's going to use the name that we passed in. We can confirm this by doing "ls -l".
We have our demo repository as before, and then we also have "website",
which we just created through the "git clone" command.
If we go into the folder named website, the way that I have my terminal set up
I have "(master)" in parenthesis, which indicates this is a Git repository
on the master branch. If I do an "ls -al", that will list all files including hidden ones
and we can confirm that this is the exact same repository from before.